In this tutorial, we will add a respawn for players in case of death during the game. This functionality
will allow us not to wait for the end of the round to re-enter the game. We will initiate the respawn in game mode, and we will
encapsulate part of the functionality in the controller. There is a small problem here.
Since AI and Player controller are not related to each other in any way. They inherit from the general class AController.
But this will not solve our problem in any way. The respawn code must be in one place. This problem
can be easily solved using a component that we will add to AI and Player controller. Let's start by
creating it. Go to the components directory. Select the actor component.
We name the component STURespawnComponent. Click on the create class.
Let's start with the respawn time. Let's add it to the GameData structure. Copy property RoundTime.
Let's call the variable RespawnTime. The units will also be seconds. Let it be five seconds by default.
And let's also change clamp a bit. Set the maximum value to 20 seconds.
I cleaned up the component class as usual. Added a constructor. I set the bCanEverTick flag to false and added an include for the GameModeBase,
which we will need soon. We return to the header file of the component.
Let's create a public function called Respawn. The function will take one parameter.
This is the respawn time. The respawn timer will start inside the function.
We create a private section. The first variable we need is the TimerHandle.
We call it RespawnTimerHandle. The timer logic will be similar to the timer logic in the Game Mode class.
It will be executed once a second, thanks to this, in the next lesson we will display the time in the interface.
The next variable is responsible for the remaining respawn time - RespawnCountDown.
We also need the timer update functions. Let's call it RespawnTimerUpdate.
Let's create a body for each function in a .cpp file.
Let's start with the Respawn function that game mode will call. The GetTimerManager function of
the component class does not exist, so we will get the timer manager from the UWorld object.
We check that the pointer to the world is not null. We assign the RespawnTIme value to the counter variable.
Get the TimerManager through GetWorld and start the respawn timer.
So, every second we call the RespawnTimerUpdate function. We will decrease the RespawnCountDown value by one.
And if the value of the variable equals zero, then the waiting time has expired
and we are ready to respawn. Checking the pointer to UWorld again.
Next, stop the respawn timer. We call ClearTimer. After that, you need to tell
game mode that the character is ready to respawn. We get a pointer to the game mode via the UWorld object.
We also make Cast to our game mode type, and if the pointer is null, then we exit the function.
If it is not zero, then we will call the game mode function, which does not exist yet. Let's call it RespawnRequest
and pass it a pointer to the component owner's controller. We will create the component in the
controllers, so it is enough to use the GetOwner function call.
It is more convenient to respawn a character in the game mode itself. We have a helper function for this purpose,
in which, among other things, the color of the character is set depending on the team. Plus, there may be
various conditions in the game under which respawn is impossible. This way we can deny the
character to respawn. We move to game mode. Let's create the RespawnRequest function.
Let's create it in the public section.
It will have one parameter - a pointer to the controller.
In the private section, we will create a helper function called StartRespawn. It is purely cosmetic
to improve the readability of our code. It will also have one parameter - a pointer to the controller.
Let's create a body for each function.
We need to include two header files.
One of them is STUUtils, and the second is the header file for the respawn component.
We start with the StartRespawn function. First, let's get a pointer to the respawn component
using our functions from STUUtils. If the component is zero, then exit the function.
And if not zero, then we call the respawn function, which will start the countdown timer.
As an argument, we pass a parameter from the GameData.RespawnTime structure.
We need to call the StartRespawn function itself in the Killed function. That is, when a notification came
that someone had killed someone. We pass VictimControlelr into it, that is, the
controller of the killed character. And in the RespawnRequest function, we just call ResetOnePlayer,
which will spawn the character and set it to the appropriate color.
Let's summarize what we have going on. If the character dies, the Killed function is called.
After that, we call the StartRespawn function, which starts the respawn timer.
When the timer comes to an end, we ask the game mode to respawn.
In game mode, there are no conditions for the respawn restrictions, so we just call the ResetOnePlayer function.
Let's add the spawning component to the Player and AI controllers.
Let's start with the AI ​​controller.
Add a forward declaration component to the unspawn.
We declare property.
And in the constructor we create a component.
Also, don't forget about the header file.
The same must be done in the Player controller. Let's copy the code piece by piece.
Our Player controller was empty, there was not even a constructor. Therefore, we add a constructor.
Copy the component respawn header file.
And also the code for creating the component. All is ready. Let's check. Compile the code.
Let's set the round time a little more. Let it be 15 seconds. We start the game.
And we wait 5 seconds for the opponents to appear again in the game. So the respawn worked. Everything works. We were also killed.
We made a respawn. True, 2 seconds before the end of the round, so we actually respawned 2 times.
Let's handle this situation. Let's add the minimum time until the end of the round,
when respawn is possible. The variable for the minimum respawn time can be added
both in game data and simply in game mode. I will create a constant in the game mode .cpp file. This parameter is not very
significant to be configurable in the blueprint. Let's call the constant MinRoundTimeForRespawn.
Let's assign a value of 10 seconds.
Let's move to the StartRespawn function and add a check for the minimum time.
Create a local variable of type boolean. Let's call it RespawnAvailable.
It will accept the value true if the following condition is met: the round time at the respawn request
must be greater than the sum of the constant with the respawn time. That is, when a respawn occurs
, it is necessary that at least 10 seconds remain. If you do not add the respawn time,
then you will have to control the dependence between these two variables,
because, for example, you can set the respawn time at 30 seconds, and the minimum time required for
respawn at 10 seconds. This combination will not make sense when, for example, 15 seconds remain.
If this condition is not met, then we exit the function.
We will not check this now in the editor. The condition is quite simple.